### A Clustering and Network Analysis of Academic Deparments at Amherst College
Sara Zhu
Multivariate Data Analysis (STAT 240)
Fall 2022

*Introduction*   
Over the past few years, Amherst College has become well-known for its efforts to diversify its studentbody. However, there is little information reported about the diversity (or lack thereof) of students withinclassrooms and academic majors on campus. In the first portion of this report, I explore the demographicmake-up of different majors at Amherst College to examine the degree to which different demographicgroups (race, sex, etc.) may be clustering in certain majors. The data set from the IPEDS database includesinformation on 2150 degrees conferred to Amherst College students who graduated in 2018, 2019, 2020,and 2021 (IPEDS). The clustering analysis is performed on the following six variables: male, non-resident(international), asian, hispanic/latino, black, and white. After comparing two different clustering methods,k-means clustering and agglomerative hierarchichal clustering, we plot the observations in PC space tovisualize the final clustering solution. The second portion of this report uses a network model to explorethe relationship between majors that have cross-listed courses in the 22-23 Amherst Course Catalog. Aftermining and processing the data from Amherst’s public course catalog, we construct a network based on 38majors and 369 cross-listings extracted from 754 courses. To detect clusters of majors based on cross-listings,we compare two greedy community detection algorithms - a modulation optimization algorithm and an edgebetweenness algorithm. The overall goal of this report is to identify clusters of majors based on demographicand curricular information
